docs/pages/management/dynamic-resources/teleport-operator-standalone.mdx, before:

---
title: Standalone Kubernetes Operator
description: Run a standalone operator against a remote Teleport cluster such as Teleport Cloud.
---

This guide explains how to run the Teleport Kubernetes Operator against any remote Teleport cluster.
If your Teleport cluster is deployed using the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart, you might want to follow
[the guide for Helm-deployed clusters](./teleport-operator-helm.mdx) instead.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/self-hosted-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- a Kubernetes cluster. You must be able to create/read Namespace, ServiceAccount,
  Deployment, Secret, Role, RoleBinding and CustomResourceDefinition resources.
- [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/quickstart/)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)

Validate Kubernetes connectivity by running the following command:

```code
$ kubectl cluster-info
# Kubernetes control plane is running at https://127.0.0.1:6443
# CoreDNS is running at https://127.0.0.1:6443/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/kube-dns:dns/proxy
# Metrics-server is running at https://127.0.0.1:6443/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/https:metrics-server:https/proxy
```

<Admonition type="tip">
  Users wanting to experiment locally with the operator can use [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/)
  to start a local Kubernetes cluster:
  ```code
  $ minikube start
  ```
</Admonition>

### Step 1/4 - Create the operator role

In this step we create the role the operator uses to interact with Teleport resources.

Download and apply the operator role manifest:

```code
$ curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gravitational/teleport/v(=teleport.version=)/integrations/operator/hack/fixture-operator-role.yaml -o operator-role.yaml
$ tctl create -f operator-role.yaml
```

<Admonition type="note">
If you upgrade the operator to a new version that adds support for new Teleport
resources, you will need to re-apply the operator role manifest. This will grant
the operator access to the new resources.
</Admonition>

### Step 2/4 - Create the operator join token

The join token is used by the operator on each startup to join the Teleport cluster and retrieve its client certificates.

To establish trust between the connecting operator and Teleport, we are delegating the authentication to Kubernetes. Kubernetes has its own internal CA which signs the ServiceAccount tokens that are mounted in the pods. In the following setup, Teleport will trust SA tokens signed by Kubernetes to join the cluster.

1. Retrieve the Kubernetes JWKS (the keys Teleport can use to validate Kubernetes SA tokens)
   ```code
   $ export JWKS="$(kubectl get --raw /openid/v1/jwks)"
   ```
1. Create the token manifest that allows serviceaccount teleport-iac-operator from the namespace teleport-iac to join the cluster as the operator.
   ```code
   $ cat <<EOF > operator-token.yaml   
   kind: token
   version: v2
   metadata:
     name: operator-bot
   spec:
     roles: [Bot]
     # bot_name will match the name of the bot created later in this guide.
     bot_name: operator
     join_method: kubernetes
     kubernetes:
       type: static_jwks
       static_jwks:
         jwks: |
           $JWKS
       allow:
       - service_account: "teleport-iac:teleport-operator" # namespace:serviceaccount
   EOF
   ```
1. Then, apply the token manifest:
   ```code
   $ tctl create -f operator-token.yaml
   ```
1. Finally, retrieve the Teleport cluster name that will be required to use the token:
   ```code
   $ export CLUSTER_NAME="$(tctl status | awk '/Cluster/ {print $2}')"
   ```

### Step 3/4 - Create the operator bot

In Teleport, a bot is a resource allowing a machine to access Teleport.
Create a bot for the operator with the following command:

```code
$ tctl bots add operator --token operator-bot --roles operator
```

### Step 4/4 - Deploy the operator in the Kubernetes cluster

At this point you can configure and run the operator:

(!docs/pages/kubernetes-access/helm/includes/helm-repo-add.mdx!)

1. Create the Kubernetes namespace that will contain both the operator Pods and the CustomResources to configure Teleport:
   ```code
   $ kubectl create namespace teleport-iac
   ```
1. Apply the strictest Pod Security Standard on the namespace:
   ```code
   $ kubectl label namespace teleport-iac 'pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce=restricted'
   ```
1. Deploy the operator with Helm:
   ```code
   $ helm install teleport-operator teleport/teleport-operator -n teleport-iac --set teleportAddress=teleport.example.com:443 --set "teleportClusterName=$CLUSTER_NAME" --set token=operator-bot 
   ```
1. Validate that operator is running properly (the operator might take a few seconds to start):
   ```code
   $ kubectl get pods -n teleport-iac
   ```

## Troubleshooting

(!docs/pages/includes/diagnostics/kubernetes-operator-troubleshooting.mdx!)

## Next steps

Helm Chart parameters are documented in the [`teleport-operator` Helm chart reference](../../reference/helm-reference/teleport-operator.mdx).

Commit message:

Document managing users, roles and accesslists through IaC

docs/pages/management/dynamic-resources/teleport-operator-standalone.mdx, after:

---
title: Standalone Kubernetes Operator
description: Run a standalone operator against a remote Teleport cluster such as Teleport Cloud.
---

This guide explains how to run the Teleport Kubernetes Operator against any remote Teleport cluster.
If your Teleport cluster is deployed using the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart, you might want to follow
[the guide for Helm-deployed clusters](./teleport-operator-helm.mdx) instead.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- a Kubernetes cluster. You must be able to create/read Namespace, ServiceAccount,
  Deployment, Secret, Role, RoleBinding and CustomResourceDefinition resources.
- [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/quickstart/)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)

Validate Kubernetes connectivity by running the following command:

```code
$ kubectl cluster-info
# Kubernetes control plane is running at https://127.0.0.1:6443
# CoreDNS is running at https://127.0.0.1:6443/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/kube-dns:dns/proxy
# Metrics-server is running at https://127.0.0.1:6443/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/https:metrics-server:https/proxy
```

<Admonition type="tip">
  Users wanting to experiment locally with the operator can use [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/)
  to start a local Kubernetes cluster:
  ```code
  $ minikube start
  ```
</Admonition>

### Step 1/4 - Create the operator role

In this step we create the role the operator uses to interact with Teleport resources.

Download and apply the operator role manifest:

```code
$ curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gravitational/teleport/v(=teleport.version=)/integrations/operator/hack/fixture-operator-role.yaml -o operator-role.yaml
$ tctl create -f operator-role.yaml
```

<Admonition type="note">
If you upgrade the operator to a new version that adds support for new Teleport
resources, you will need to re-apply the operator role manifest. This will grant
the operator access to the new resources.
</Admonition>

### Step 2/4 - Create the operator join token

The join token is used by the operator on each startup to join the Teleport cluster and retrieve its client certificates.

To establish trust between the connecting operator and Teleport, we are delegating the authentication to Kubernetes. Kubernetes has its own internal CA which signs the ServiceAccount tokens that are mounted in the pods. In the following setup, Teleport will trust SA tokens signed by Kubernetes to join the cluster.

1. Retrieve the Kubernetes JWKS (the keys Teleport can use to validate Kubernetes SA tokens)
   ```code
   $ export JWKS="$(kubectl get --raw /openid/v1/jwks)"
   ```
1. Create the token manifest that allows serviceaccount teleport-iac-operator from the namespace teleport-iac to join the cluster as the operator.
   ```code
   $ cat <<EOF > operator-token.yaml   
   kind: token
   version: v2
   metadata:
     name: operator-bot
   spec:
     roles: [Bot]
     # bot_name will match the name of the bot created later in this guide.
     bot_name: operator
     join_method: kubernetes
     kubernetes:
       type: static_jwks
       static_jwks:
         jwks: |
           $JWKS
       allow:
       - service_account: "teleport-iac:teleport-operator" # namespace:serviceaccount
   EOF
   ```
1. Then, apply the token manifest:
   ```code
   $ tctl create -f operator-token.yaml
   ```
1. Finally, retrieve the Teleport cluster name that will be required to use the token:
   ```code
   $ export CLUSTER_NAME="$(tctl status | awk '/Cluster/ {print $2}')"
   ```

### Step 3/4 - Create the operator bot

In Teleport, a bot is a resource allowing a machine to access Teleport.
Create a bot for the operator with the following command:

```code
$ tctl bots add operator --token operator-bot --roles operator
```

### Step 4/4 - Deploy the operator in the Kubernetes cluster

At this point you can configure and run the operator:

(!docs/pages/kubernetes-access/helm/includes/helm-repo-add.mdx!)

1. Create the Kubernetes namespace that will contain both the operator Pods and the CustomResources to configure Teleport:
   ```code
   $ kubectl create namespace teleport-iac
   ```
1. Apply the strictest Pod Security Standard on the namespace:
   ```code
   $ kubectl label namespace teleport-iac 'pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce=restricted'
   ```
1. Deploy the operator with Helm:
   ```code
   $ helm install teleport-operator teleport/teleport-operator -n teleport-iac --set teleportAddress=teleport.example.com:443 --set "teleportClusterName=$CLUSTER_NAME" --set token=operator-bot 
   ```
1. Validate that operator is running properly (the operator might take a few seconds to start):
   ```code
   $ kubectl get pods -n teleport-iac
   ```
   
## Next steps

Follow [the user and role IaC guide](./user-and-role.mdx) to use your newly
deployed Teleport Kubernetes Operator to create Teleport users and grant them
roles.

Helm Chart parameters are documented in the [`teleport-operator` Helm chart reference](../../reference/helm-reference/teleport-operator.mdx).

## Troubleshooting

TODO: add troubleshooting steps for operator pod

(!docs/pages/includes/diagnostics/kubernetes-operator-troubleshooting.mdx!)
