docs/pages/management/dynamic-resources/teleport-operator.mdx, before:

---
title: Teleport Kubernetes Operator
description: Easily manage Teleport resources from Kubernetes
---

The Teleport Kubernetes Operator provides a way for Kubernetes users to manage some Teleport resources through
Kubernetes, following [the Operator Pattern](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/).

The Teleport Kubernetes Operator is deployed alongside its custom resource definitions. Once deployed, users
can use a Kubernetes client like `kubectl` or their existing CI/CD Kubernetes pipelines to create Teleport
custom resources. The Teleport Kubernetes Operator watches for those resources and does API calls to Teleport to
reach the desired state.  

Since Teleport version 15, the operator can be deployed both:
- alongside self-hosted Teleport clusters deployed with the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart.
  This deployment method differs from version 14. In version 15 and above, the operator
  is no longer deployed as a sidecar. An operator outage cannot affect Teleport's availability.
- against a remote Teleport instance (such as Teleport Cloud or deployed with Terraform)

The operator supports multiple replicas within a single cluster by electing a
leader with a Kubernetes lease.

<Admonition type="warning">
Only one operator deployment should run against a Teleport cluster. Else, different operators
could cause instability and non-deterministic behaviour.
</Admonition>

Currently supported Teleport resources are:
- users
- roles
- OIDC connectors
- SAML connectors
- GitHub connectors
- Login Rules

### Setting up the operator

If you are self-hosting Teleport using the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart,
follow [the guide for Helm-deployed clusters](./teleport-operator-helm.mdx).

If you are hosting Teleport out of Kubernetes (Teleport Cloud, Terraform, ...),
follow [the standalone operator guide](./teleport-operator-standalone.mdx).

### Troubleshooting

(!docs/pages/includes/diagnostics/kubernetes-operator-troubleshooting.mdx!)

## Next steps

Check out [access controls documentation](../../access-controls/introduction.mdx)

Commit message:

Document managing users, roles and accesslists through IaC

docs/pages/management/dynamic-resources/teleport-operator.mdx, after:

---
title: Teleport Kubernetes Operator
description: Easily manage Teleport resources from Kubernetes
---

The Teleport Kubernetes Operator provides a way for Kubernetes users to manage some Teleport resources through
Kubernetes, following [the Operator Pattern](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/).

The Teleport Kubernetes Operator is deployed alongside its custom resource definitions. Once deployed, users
can use a Kubernetes client like `kubectl` or their existing CI/CD Kubernetes pipelines to create Teleport
custom resources. The Teleport Kubernetes Operator watches for those resources and does API calls to Teleport to
reach the desired state.  

Since Teleport version 15, the operator can be deployed both:
- alongside self-hosted Teleport clusters deployed with the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart.
  This deployment method differs from version 14. In version 15 and above, the operator
  is no longer deployed as a sidecar. An operator outage cannot affect Teleport's availability.
- against a remote Teleport instance (such as Teleport Cloud or deployed with Terraform)

The operator supports multiple replicas within a single cluster by electing a
leader with a Kubernetes lease.

<Admonition type="warning">
Only one operator deployment should run against a Teleport cluster. Else, different operators
could cause instability and non-deterministic behaviour.
</Admonition>

Currently supported Teleport resources are:
- users
- roles
- provision tokens
- OIDC connectors
- SAML connectors
- GitHub connectors
- Login Rules

### Setting up the operator

If you are self-hosting Teleport using the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart,
follow [the guide for Helm-deployed clusters](./teleport-operator-helm.mdx).

If you are hosting Teleport out of Kubernetes (Teleport Cloud, Terraform, ...),
follow [the standalone operator guide](./teleport-operator-standalone.mdx).

### Troubleshooting

(!docs/pages/includes/diagnostics/kubernetes-operator-troubleshooting.mdx!)

## Next steps

- Follow the ["Managing users and roles with IaC" guide](./user-and-role.mdx).

- Check out [access controls documentation](../../access-controls/introduction.mdx)
