docs/pages/management/dynamic-resources/terraform-provider.mdx, before:

---
title: Terraform Provider
description: How to manage dynamic resources using the Teleport Terraform provider.
videoBanner: YgNHD4SS8dg
---

This guide demonstrates how to:

- Set up the Terraform provider for Teleport on Linux and macOS.
- Configure Teleport users and roles using the Terraform provider.

For instructions on managing the Teleport dynamic resources as code using
GitOps, read the guide to using the Teleport Terraform provider with [Spacelift
and Machine ID](../../machine-id/deployment/spacelift.mdx).

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- [Terraform >= (=terraform.version=)+](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli)

  ```code
  $ terraform version
  # Terraform v(=terraform.version=)
  ```

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/3. Create Teleport credentials for Terraform

Terraform needs a signed identity file from the Teleport cluster certificate
authority to manage resources in the cluster.
You can create a local Teleport user for this purpose or you can use the machine identity agent
[(Machine ID)](../../machine-id/introduction.mdx) to generate credentials.

If you intend to run Terraform from a CI/CD platform, Machine ID is often a better
option for generating credentials. Machine ID can provision ephemeral short-lived
certificates that are appropriate for CI/CD workflows instead of using manually-generated
credentials that have a longer time-to-live (TTL) period. For more information about
using Machine ID, see the [Machine ID Getting Started Guide](../../machine-id/getting-started.mdx).

To prepare credentials for a local Teleport user:

1. Create a folder called `teleport-terraform` to hold temporary files:

   ```code
   $ mkdir -p teleport-terraform
   $ cd teleport-terraform
   ```

1. Create a new file called `terraform.yaml` and open it in an editor.

1. Configure settings for a local Teleport user and role by pasting the following content into the `terraform.yaml` file:

   ```yaml
   kind: role
   metadata:
     name: terraform
   spec:
     allow:
       db_labels:
         '*': '*'
       app_labels:
         '*': '*'
       rules:
         - resources:
           - app
           - cluster_auth_preference
           - cluster_networking_config
           - db
           - device
           - github
           - login_rule
           - oidc
           - okta_import_rule
           - role
           - saml
           - session_recording_config
           - token
           - trusted_cluster
           - user
           verbs: ['list','create','read','update','delete']
   version: v7
   ---
   kind: user
   metadata:
     name: terraform
   spec:
     roles: ['terraform']
   version: v2
   ```

   These settings configure a user and role named `terraform` with the permissions
   required to manage resources in your Teleport cluster.

1. Create the `terraform` user and role by running the following command:

   ```code
   $ tctl create terraform.yaml
   ```

   The `terraform` user can't sign in to get credentials, so you must have another user
   **impersonate** the `terraform` account to request a certificate.

1. Create a new file called `terraform-impersonator.yaml` and open it in an editor.

1. Configure a role that enables your user to impersonate the Terraform user by pasting
the following content into the `terraform-impersonator.yaml` file:

   ```yaml
   kind: role
   version: v7
   metadata:
     name: terraform-impersonator
   spec:
     allow:
       # This impersonate role allows any user assigned to this role to impersonate
       # and generate certificates for the user named "terraform" with a role also
       # named "terraform".
       impersonate:
         users: ['terraform']
         roles: ['terraform']
   ```

1. Create the `terraform-impersonator` role by running the following command:

   ```code
   $ tctl create terraform-impersonator.yaml
   ```

1. (!docs/pages/includes/add-role-to-user.mdx role="terraform-impersonator"!)

1. Request a signed identity file for the Terraform user by running the following command:

   ```code
   $ tctl auth sign --user=terraform --out=terraform-identity
   ```

   After running this command, you have a `terraform-identity` file with credentials for the Terraform user.

## Step 2/3. Prepare a Terraform configuration file

To prepare a Terraform configuration file:

1. Create a new file called `main.tf` and open it in an editor.

1. Define an example user and role using Terraform by pasting the following content into the `main.tf` file:

   <Tabs>
   <TabItem scope={["cloud","team"]} label="Cloud-Hosted">
   ```hcl
   (!examples/resources/terraform/terraform-user-role-cloud.tf!)
   ```
   </TabItem>
   <TabItem scope={["oss", "enterprise"]} label="Self-Hosted">
   ```hcl
   (!examples/resources/terraform/terraform-user-role-self-hosted.tf!)
   ```
   </TabItem>
   </Tabs>

## Step 3/3. Apply the configuration

To apply the configuration:

1. Check the contents of the `teleport-terraform` folder:

   ```code
   $ ls
   # main.tf  terraform-identity  terraform-impersonator.yaml  terraform.yaml
   ```

1. Initialize the working directory that contains Terraform configuration files by running the
following command:

   ```code
   $ terraform init
   ```

1. Execute the Terraform plan defined in the configuration file by running the
following command:

   ```code
   $ terraform apply
   ```

## Next steps

- Explore the full list of supported [Terraform provider resources](../../reference/terraform-provider.mdx).
- Read more about [impersonation](../../access-controls/guides/impersonation.mdx).

Commit message:

Document managing users, roles and accesslists through IaC

docs/pages/management/dynamic-resources/terraform-provider.mdx, after:

---
title: Terraform Provider
description: How to manage dynamic resources using the Teleport Terraform provider.
videoBanner: YgNHD4SS8dg
---

This guide demonstrates how to: Set up the Terraform provider for Teleport on
Linux and macOS.

For instructions on managing users and roles via Terraform, read
the ["Managing users and roles with IaC" guide](./user-and-role.mdx).

For instructions on managing the Teleport dynamic resources as code using
GitOps, read the guide to using the Teleport Terraform provider with [Spacelift
and Machine ID](../../machine-id/deployment/spacelift.mdx).

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- [Terraform >= (=terraform.version=)+](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli)

  ```code
  $ terraform version
  # Terraform v(=terraform.version=)
  ```

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/3. Create Teleport credentials for Terraform

Terraform needs a signed identity file from the Teleport cluster certificate
authority to manage resources in the cluster.
You can create a local Teleport user for this purpose or you can use the machine identity agent
[(Machine ID)](../../machine-id/introduction.mdx) to generate credentials.

If you intend to run Terraform from a CI/CD platform, Machine ID is often a better
option for generating credentials. Machine ID can provision ephemeral short-lived
certificates that are appropriate for CI/CD workflows instead of using manually-generated
credentials that have a longer time-to-live (TTL) period. For more information about
using Machine ID, see the [Machine ID Getting Started Guide](../../machine-id/getting-started.mdx).

To prepare credentials for a local Teleport user:

1. Create a folder called `teleport-terraform` to hold temporary files:

   ```code
   $ mkdir -p teleport-terraform
   $ cd teleport-terraform
   ```

1. Create a new file called `terraform.yaml` and open it in an editor.

1. Configure settings for a local Teleport user and role by pasting the following content into the `terraform.yaml` file:

   ```yaml
   kind: role
   metadata:
     name: terraform
   spec:
     allow:
       db_labels:
         '*': '*'
       app_labels:
         '*': '*'
       rules:
         - resources:
           - app
           - cluster_auth_preference
           - cluster_networking_config
           - db
           - device
           - github
           - login_rule
           - oidc
           - okta_import_rule
           - role
           - saml
           - session_recording_config
           - token
           - trusted_cluster
           - user
           - access_list
           verbs: ['list','create','read','update','delete']
   version: v7
   ---
   kind: user
   metadata:
     name: terraform
   spec:
     roles: ['terraform']
   version: v2
   ```

   These settings configure a user and role named `terraform` with the permissions
   required to manage resources in your Teleport cluster.

1. Create the `terraform` user and role by running the following command:

   ```code
   $ tctl create -f terraform.yaml
   role 'terraform' has been created
   user "terraform" has been created
   ```

   The `terraform` user can't sign in to get credentials, so you must have another user
   **impersonate** the `terraform` account to request a certificate.

1. Create a new file called `terraform-impersonator.yaml` and open it in an editor.

1. Configure a role that enables your user to impersonate the Terraform user by pasting
the following content into the `terraform-impersonator.yaml` file:

   ```yaml
   kind: role
   version: v7
   metadata:
     name: terraform-impersonator
   spec:
     allow:
       # This impersonate role allows any user assigned to this role to impersonate
       # and generate certificates for the user named "terraform" with a role also
       # named "terraform".
       impersonate:
         users: ['terraform']
         roles: ['terraform']
   ```

1. Create the `terraform-impersonator` role by running the following command:

   ```code
   $ tctl create -f terraform-impersonator.yaml
   role 'terraform-impersonator' has been created
   ```

1. (!docs/pages/includes/add-role-to-user.mdx role="terraform-impersonator"!)

1. Request a signed identity file for the Terraform user by running the following command:

   ```code
   $ tctl auth sign --user=terraform --out=terraform-identity
   ```

   After running this command, you have a `terraform-identity` file with credentials for the Terraform user.

## Step 2/3. Prepare a Terraform configuration file

To prepare a Terraform configuration file:

1. Create a new file called `provider.tf` and open it in an editor.

1. Use the Teleport Terraform provider and connect it to your Teleport cluster 
   by pasting the following content into the `provider.tf` file:

   <Tabs>
   <TabItem scope={["cloud","team"]} label="Cloud-Hosted">
   ```hcl
   (!examples/resources/terraform/provider-cloud.tf!)
   ```
   </TabItem>
   <TabItem scope={["oss", "enterprise"]} label="Self-Hosted">
   ```hcl
   (!examples/resources/terraform/provider-self-hosted.tf!)
   ```
   </TabItem>
   </Tabs>

## Step 3/3. Validate the configuration

To apply the configuration:

1. Check the contents of the `teleport-terraform` folder:

   ```code
   $ ls
   # provider.tf  terraform-identity  terraform-impersonator.yaml  terraform.yaml
   ```

1. Initialize the working directory that contains Terraform configuration files
   by running the following command:

   ```code
   $ terraform init
   ```

1. Execute the Terraform plan defined in the configuration file by running the
   following command:

   ```code
   $ terraform apply
   ```

## Next steps

- Follow [the user and role IaC guide](./user-and-role.mdx) to use the Terraform
  Provider to create Teleport users and grant them roles.
- Explore the full list of supported [Terraform provider resources](../../reference/terraform-provider.mdx).
- Read more about [impersonation](../../access-controls/guides/impersonation.mdx).
